
The human mouth in combination with air issuing from the throat has an extraordinary capacity for creating a variety of sounds.

The names for different types of sounds (fricative, dental, labial, voiced, voiceless, sonant, surd, etc.) may be strange to the learner of a new language, especially a language which combines a large variety of sounds not found in a native tongue (i.e. Sanskrit).

However, given that Sanskrit and especially has a large number of sound changes (sandhi) which occur specifically because of the perceived sonorousness of a certain formulation or difficulity of another, it is useful to have a basic understanding of the various types of sounds and how they relate to each other. 

This will, potentially, help you understand the "why" of the sandhi and this understanding may facilitate use. Moreover, it will be helpful, should you learn other later Indo-European languages, to understand the types of sound changes that occur as a family of languages evolves. 

*Here are the types of sounds you will find in Sanskrit:*

*General Types:*

p(. Vowel: Sounds formed without contraction of any part above the glottis (i.e. in the mouth); is capable of standing alone as a syllable. 

p(. Semi-vowel: Sounds formed without contraction of any part above the glottis (i.e. in the mouth); cannot be a syllable by itself. 

p(. Stops (or occulsive or plosive or mute), consonants in which that the action stops all airflow: 


p((. 		Dental: formed by articulating the tongue against the upper teeth (English "d", "t")

p((. 		Labial: formed by the lips (English "b", "m")

p((. 		Palatal: formed by pressing the tongue against the hard palate at the roof of the mouth (English "j")
		
p((. 		Guttural: formed from back of throat (English "k", "g")
		
p((. 		Click/Lingual: with tip of tongue at top of palate ("r" in very)
		

p(. Fricative: sound formed by forcing air through a narrow channel, as in the tongue top of the palate ("ch" in Bach) or tongue against the front teeth (english "f").

p(. Affricate: sound that starts with stop but ends in fricative (English "ch")
	

*Additional categories:*

p(. Voiced (Sonant): sound produced with vibration of larynx   (English: "bin", "den", "gin", "gone")

p(. Voiceless (Surd): sound produced without vibration of larynx (English "tin," "ten," "chin," "con")


p(. *Note:* These can combined, so that you can have a voiced dental stop, or voiceless dental fricative.


*Additional Terms:*

p(. Approximants: Sound formed by forcing air through a channel, yet without the turbluence necessary to form a fricative. Essentially a lighter fricative. Sometimes used as a synonym for semi-vowel.
