atas hence
itas hence
atra here
iha here
ittham in this way, so
kutas why?
adhunaa now
adya today
evam so, thus
eva just, exactly
tatas therefore
tatra there
tathaa in that way, so
kutra wehre
kva where
tadaa then
sarvatra everywhere
iti so, thus; ends quotation
ca (postpos.) -que
yatas whence, wherefrom
yatra where
yathaa in which way, as
katham how?
kadaa when?
yadaa when, if
sadaa always
tu but, however
punar again, but

Verbs 

car go, wander, graze (intr); perform, commit (tr)
jiv  live 
tyaj leave, abandon
dah burn
dhaav run
nam bow, bend one's self (intr); honor, reverence (tr)
pac cook
pat fall; fly
yaj sacrifice
raks protect
vad speak, say
vas dwell
vah carry, bear (tr); flow, blow, proceed (intr)
çans praise

II

gam (gacchati) go. 
ghraa (jighrati) smell
ji conquer, win.
dru run.
nii lead, guide
paa (pibati) drink.
bhuu become, be, exist.
yam (yacchati) furnish, give.
vrs rain, give rain; shower down; overwhelm
smr remember, think on
stha (tisthati) stand.

M. Noun

gaja elephant
gandha odor
graama village
nara man 
nrpa king
putra son

N. Noun

ksiira milk
grha house
jala water
daana gift, present
nagara city

Inter. 
he O, ho

III

a-accent
is (icchati) wish, desire
krs (krsati) plough
ksip (ksipati) hurl, cast, throw
dic (dicati) show, point out
prach (prcchati) ask, ask about
vic (vicati) enter
sic (siñcati) drip, drop;  moisten
srj (srjati) let go; create
sprç (sprçati) touch; wash

a-class 
guh (guuhati) hide, conceal
sad (siidati) sit


M. Noun

kata mat
kunta spear
baala child boy
maarga road, way, street
megha cloud
çara arrow
hasta hand

N. Noun

ksetra field
dhana money, riches
lanngala plough
visa poison
sukha fortune, luck, happiness

IV 

krt (krntati) cut, cut off
muc (muñcati) free, deliver, release
ruh (rohati) grow
lip (limpati) smear
lup (lumpati) break to pieces, devastate, plunder

M. Noun

agni fire
ari enemy
asi sword
rsi seer
kavi poet
giri mountain
jana man (pl.) people
paan.i  

N. Noun

duhkha misery, misfortune






