In order of introduction in Perry, with paragraph number. Explanatory notes includes from W. Sidney Allen's book Sandhi where additional explanation may be helpful.

95
final s/r -> h (end of phrase or before k/kh/p/ph/ç/s) NOTE: the final syllable is commonly pronounced with the vowel sound of the previous sylable. According to MW, this is because the pure "h" sound is difficult for many speakers of S.Asian languages to pronounce.

104
a/aa + a = aa
a/aa + i/ii = e
a/aa + u/uu = o
a/aa + r = ar
a/aa + e = aai
a/aa + o/au = au

116
s -> r (voiced)
r -> s (voiceless)

118
final as -> o (before voiced consonant or a) NOTE: initial "a" in following word,if exists,  is dropped and replaced with apostrophe

120
final as -> a (before vowel other than a)

121 
final aas -> aa (before any voiced vowel or consonant)

122
final r -> h

123
rr -> elongated vowel + r (e.g. punar raamah -> punaa raamah)

129
final s -> ç (before c, ch)
final s -> s. (before t.,t.h) extremely rare

138
final n -> ñ (before j and ç), in second case usually also ç -> ch

139
final n -> ňl (before l) (e.g. taan lokaan -> taaňl lokaan) 

140 
final n + (c/ch/ṭ/ṭh/t/th) -> (see below) + n (anusvara)  (e.g. taan ca -> taaṅç ca) 
c/ch -> ç
ṭ/ṭh -> ṣ
t/th -> s

EX: voiceless stop (palatal, lingual, dental) -> corresponding sibilant

149
final t + c/ch/j/jh/ṭ/ṭh/ḍ/ḍh/l -> doubles  (e.g. meghaat jalam -> meghaaj jalam)

NOTE: Appears to be an error here AHHHHHH

EX: palatals + linguals + l

148 final
final t -> g/gh/d/dh/b/bh -> d

EX: before voiced ex. palatals and nasals

150 
final t + ç -> c + ch (e.g. nrpaat çatruh -> nrpaac chatruh)

151 
final t + nn/ñ/ṇ/n/m (nasals) -> n + nasal  
NOTE: in rare cases instead t -> d

156
final short/long vowel + initial short/long vowel -> vowel
e.g.
i/ii + i/ii -> ii

157
i/ii/u/uu/ṛ + other vowel/dipthong -> corresponding semivowel (y/v/r)
(e.g. tiṣṭhatii atra -> tiṣṭhaty atra)

158
final e/o + a -> e/o + nul (a disappears)

159 
final i/u of dipthong -> y/v
EXCEPT: when 158 applies

160
final long vowel (e/) -> shortened form

161
Exceptions to 160:

(1) Dual endings do not change.
(2) Final, or only, vowel of an interjection (he indra)

164
final aai and au -> aay/aav (before vowel/dipthong).  y/v may be dropped.

165
words (aa/ma) to/don't  + initial ch -> cch
RARE

166 
final r + initial n -> r + ṅ  

167
anu
ava



n + n






..
22 rules


