
Verbs 

agam (agacchati) come
aruh (arohati) climb, mount, ascend
as (asyati) throw, hurl
bhuu become, be, exist.
çans praise
car go, wander, graze (intr); perform, commit (tr)
çus (çusyati) dry up
dah burn
dhaav run
dic (dicati) show, point out
dru run
gam (gacchati) go. 
ghraa (jighrati) smell
guh (guuhati) hide, conceal
huu/hvaa (hvayati) call
ji conquer, win.
jiv  live 
is (icchati) wish, desire
krt (krntati) cut, cut off
krs (krsati) plough
krudh (krudhyati) be angry (+ gen or dat)
ksip (ksipati) hurl, cast, throw
kup (kupyati) be angry (+ gen or dat)
likh (likhati) scratch; write
lip (limpati) smear
lubh (lubhyati) desire, covet (+ dat or gen)
lup (lumpati) break to pieces, devastate, plunder
muc (muñcati) free, deliver, release
nac (nacyati) perish
nam bow, bend one's self (intr); honor, reverence (tr)
nii lead, guide
paa (pibati) drink.
pac cook
paç (paçyati) see
pat fall; fly
prach (prcchati) ask, ask about
raks protect
ruh (rohati) rise, spring up, grow
sad (siidati) sit
smr remember,   think on
snih (snihyati) feel inclined to, love (+ gen or loc)
stha (tisthati) stand.
tr (tarati) cross over
tyaj leave, abandon
vad speak, sayr
vas dwell
vah carry, bear (tr); flow, blow, proceed (intr)
vic (vicati) enter
vrs rain, give rain; shower down; overwhelm
yaj sacrifice
yam (yacchati) furnish, give.



M. Noun

açva horse (m.)
agni fire (m.)
anna food, fodder (n.)
ari enemy (m.)
asi sword (m.)
baahu arm (m.)
baala child boy (m.)
bindu drop (m.)
bhaanu sun (m.)
çatru enemy (m.)
çikhara summit (m.)
çisya pupil, scholar (m.)
çiva name of god (m.)
çara arrow (m.)
daana gift, present (n.)
dhana money, riches (n.)
duhkha misery, misfortune (n.)
gaja elephant (m.)
gandha odor (m.)
graama village (m.)
giri mountain (m.)
grha house (n.)
guru teacher (m.)
hari name of god (m.)
hasta hand (m.)
jala water (n.)
jana man (pl.) people (m.)
kata mat (m.)
kavi poet (m.)
ksetra field (n.)
ksiira milk (n.)
kunta spear (m.)
lanngala plough (n.)
mani jewel (m.)
maarga road, way, street (m.)
megha cloud (m.)
nagara city (n.)
nara man  (m.)
nrpa king (m.)
paada foot; quarter; ray, beam (m.)
paan.i  hand (m.)
paapa sin (n.)
paraçu axe (m.)
putra son (m.)
pattra leaf, letter (n.)
raaçi heap (m.)
raama name of hero (m.)
ratna jewel (n.)
rsi seer (m.)
satya truth, righteousness (n.)
sukha fortune, luck, happiness (n.)
suukta Vedic hymn (n.)
udadhi ocean (m.)
vaayu wind (m.)
visa poison (n.)
visnu name of a god (m.)
vrksa tree (m.)




Other

adhunaa now
adya today
atas hence
atra here
ca (postpos.) -que
eva just, exactly
evam so, thus
he O, ho
iha here
itas hence
iti so, thus; ends quotation
ittham in this way, so
katham how?
kadaa when?
kutas why?
kutra wehre
kva where
sarvatra everywhere
tadaa then
tatas therefore
tatra there
tathaa in that way, so
yatas whence, wherefrom
yatra where
yathaa in which way, as
yadaa when, if
sadaa always
tu but, however
punar again, but






