*atas hence
itas hence
atra here
iha here
ittham in this way, so
kutas why?
adhunaa now
adya today
evam so, thus
eva just, exactly
tatas fore
tatra there
tathaa in that way, so
kutra wehre
kva where
tadaa then
sarvatra everywhere
iti so, thus; ends quotation
ca (postpos.) and -que 
yatas whence, wherefrom
yatra where
yathaa in which way, as
katham how?
kadaa when?
yadaa when, if
sadaa always
tu but, however
punar again, but

Verbs 

car go, wander, graze (intr); perform, commit (tr)
jiv  live 
tyaj leave, abandon
dah burn
dhaav run
nam bow, bend one's self (intr); honor, reverence (tr)
pac cook
pat fall; fly
yaj sacrifice
raks protect
vad speak, say
vas dwell
vah carry, bear (tr); flow, blow, proceed (intr)
çans praise

II

gam (gacchati) go. 
ghraa (jighrati) smell
ji conquer, win.
dru run.
nii lead, guide
paa (pibati) drink.
bhuu become, be, exist.
yam (yacchati) furnish, give.
vrs rain, give rain; shower down; overwhelm
smr remember, think on
stha (tisthati) stand.

M. Noun

gaja elephant
gandha odor
graama village
nara man 
nrpa king
putra son

N. Noun

ksiira milk
grha house
jala water
daana gift, present
nagara city

Inter. 
he O, ho

III

a-accent
is (icchati) wish, desire
krs (krsati) plough
ksip (ksipati) hurl, cast, throw
dic (dicati) show, point out
prach (prcchati) ask, ask about
vic (vicati) enter
sic (siñcati) drip, drop;  moisten
srj (srjati) let go; create
sprç (sprçati) touch; wash

a-class 
guh (guuhati) hide, conceal
sad (siidati) sit


M. Noun

kata mat
kunta spear
baala child boy
maarga road, way, street
megha cloud
çara arrow
hasta hand

N. Noun

ksetra field
dhana money, riches
lanngala plough
visa poison
sukha fortune, luck, happiness

IV 

krt (krntati) cut, cut off
muc (muñcati) free, deliver, release
ruh (rohati) grow
lip (limpati) smear
lup (lumpati) break to pieces, devastate, plunder



M. Noun

agni fire
ari enemy
asi sword
rsi seer
kavi poet
giri mountain
jana man (pl.) people
paan.i  
raama name of hero
vrksa tree
çiva name of god
hari name of god

N. Noun

duhkha misery, misfortune
paapa sin 
satya truth, righteousness

V

as (asyati) throw, hurl
kup (kupyati) be angry (+ gen or dat)
krudh (krudhyati) be angry (+ gen or dat)
agam (agacchati) come
tr (tarati) cross over
nac (nacyati) perish
paç (paçyati) see
ruh (rohati) rise, spring up, grow
aruh (arohati) climb, mount, ascend
likh (likhati) scratch; write
lubh (lubhyati) desire, covet (+ dat or gen)
çus (çusyati) dry up
snih (snihyati) feel inclined to, love (+ gen or loc)
huu/hvaa (hvayati) call

M. Noun

açva horse
udadhi ocean
guru teacher
paraçu axe
paada foot; quarter; ray, beam
baahu arm
bindu drop
bhaanu sun
mani jewel
raaçi heap
vaayu wind
visnu name of a god
çatru enemy
çikhara summit
çisya pupil, scholar

N. Noun

anna food, fodder
pattra leaf, letter
ratna jewel
suukta Vedic hymn


VI

r (rcchati) go to; fall to one's lot, fall upon
akram (aakraamati) stride up to; attack
aacam (aacaamati) sip, drink, rinse the mouth
tam (taamyati) be sad
tus (tusyati) rejoice, take pleasure in (+ inst)
diiv (diivyati) play
bhram (bhraamyati) wander about
mad (maadyati) get drunk
vyadh (vidhyati) hit, pierce
çam (çaamyati) become quiet, be extinguihed, go out
çram (çraamyati) become weary
hr (harati) take away, steal, plunder.

noun

aksa die, dice (m.)
adharma injustice, wrong (m.)
ali bee (m.)
açru tear (n.)
rksa bear (m.)
kopa anger (m.)
ksatriya warrior (m.)
nrpati king (m.)
netra eye (n.)
madhu honey (n.)
mukha mouth, face (n.)
mrtyu death (m.)
vasu wealth, money (n.)


VII

kathaya (dathayati) relate, tell
ksal (ksaalayati) wash
ganaya (ganayati) number, count
cur (corayati) steal
tad (taadayati) strike, beat
tul (tolayati) weigh
dandaya (dandayati) punish
aanii (aanayati) bring
piid (piidayati) torment
puuj (puujayati) honor
pr (paarayati) overcome evils; prevail

noun 

janaka father (m.)
danda stick, punishment (m.)
punya merit (n.)
phala fruit; reward (n.)
raamaayana a noted poem (n)
ruupaka gold-piece (n.)
loka world, people (sing and pl) (m.)
saadhu holy man, saint (m.)
suvarna gold (n.)
suuta driver, charioteer (m.)
stena thief (m.)

adverb

iva as, like

VIII

V (deponents)

arthaya (arthayate) ask for (w. two accus.)
iikṣ (iikṣate) see, behold
kamp (kampate) tremble
jan (jaayate) be born, arise 
bhaaṣ (bhaaṣate) speak
mṛ (mriyate) die
yat (yatate) strive for (w. dat)
yudh (yudhyate) fight (w. instru. of accompaniment)
aarabh (aarabhate) take hold on, begin
ruc (rocate) please (+ dat. gen)
labh (labhate) receive, take
vand (vandate) greet, honor
çikṣ (çikṣate) learn
sah (sahate) endure
sev (sevate) serve, honor

Noun

anartha misfortune (m.)
udyoga diligence (m.)
kalyaaṇa advantage (n.)
taru tree (m.)
dvija Aryan (m.)
dvijaati Aryan (m.)
dharma right; law; virtue (m.)
dhaarirya steadfastness (n.)
paçu beast (m.)
bala strength, might (n.)
manuṣya man (m.)
yajña sacrifice (m.)
vana woods, forest (n.)
vinaya obedience (m.)
viici wave (m.)
çaastra science; text-book (n.)
çuudra man of the fourth, lower caste
hita advantage (n.)

adv. 
na note


IX

V

avagacchati understand
avatarati descend
upanayati intorduce, concecrate
pariṇayati lead about; marry
utpatati fly up
avarohati descend

deponent

samgam (samgacchate) come together, meet (w. instr.)
paraajayate be conquered
prapadyate flee for refuge (acc.) to (acc. of person)
bhikṣate beg, get by begging
mṛgayate hunt for, seek (denom.)
vartate exist, subsist, be, become
çobhate be brilliant, shine; eminent

N

daṣu arrow (m.)
kanyaa daughter, maiden (f.)
ganngaa Ganges (f.)
grhasta househoulder (m.)
chaayaa shade (f.)
prayaaga a city name (m.)
bhaya fear (n)
bhaaryaa wife, woman (f.)
bhaaṣaa speech, langugage (f.)
bhicaa alms (f.)
Yamunaa (f., n. pr.)
rṇa battle (m./ n.)
rsyaa street (f.)
vidraa knowledge, learning (f.)
vidaga bird (m.)
vyabhha hunter (m)
çaraṇa protection (n.)
samchyaa twilight (f.)
svarga heaven (m.) ?
hudaya heart (n.)  ?

Adj. 

kvṣṇa black  
paapa bad, wicked
prabhuuta much, abundance

Adv.

saha together with
sahasaa suddenly, quickly


*