Evaluation I wrote for the Goethe-Instit in Munich.

Facilities 

Overall the facilities had no major problems. The facilities in the Sonnenstrasse were clean, the art well-selected, and personnel consistently helpful and often extraordinarily friendly. I found the persons staffing the Information room on the ground floor especially helpful. The offerings of the Mediothek were useful and well-organized, although it was frequently too loud for persons to independently study.  Also, there was sometimes difficulty selecting what was most appropriate for an individual among the many options, as the librarians cannot adequately assess the level of any given student (see the section on Pedagogy).  I personally found the books with attached CD here one can listen and read simultaneously especially helpful and wish they had be recommended to me earlier.   

The Winfriedstrasse facility, in which I resided, was also clean, neat, and well-organized, despite occasional problems with noise after hours.  The internet provided in Winfriedstrasse was especially slow.  Although it was mentioned by many students, those who brought it to the attention of Goethe Institute administration claimed that whomever they spoke to did not help. Since students were told in advance that they could use Skype in their rooms to make phone calls, and the internet was too slow to successfully make phone calls, this is unacceptable.  Also, there apparently were only two keys lent for the Music Room, which limited desired access by some students.  
 

Pedagogy 

The teaching style was exceptionally good and students seemed to appreciate both the method of the Schritte curriculum and the enthusiasm of the teachers.  However, there appeared to be significant variation in the measurements and methods of achievement, with sometimes less and lighter testing than many students preferred.  Also, there was little accommodation for the more motivated students.  In the transition from the first to second class many students were advanced despite having minimal competence in the subjects addressed in the first class, and these students were mixed with those with more motivation.  Also, despite the helpfully provided statement of goals for each course from the Goethe Institute, there was little indication of what vocabulary should be learned in each course, and little or no vocabulary reinforcement through tests or other means.  For instance, each Schritte book has many vocabulary words in the back of each chapter.  Among the students surveyed, none stated that their teachers had made any statement about what vocabulary was necessary or suggested to learn.  In the opinion of several students asked, this was the most severe shortcoming of the lessons provided. 
While I expect that not all of the following suggestions are feasible for the Goethe Institute to implement, I nonetheless offer the following: 

(1) Provide a clear statement as to which vocabulary should be learned in any given course, and provide some reinforcement, either in class or extracurricular work.

(2) Do not allow students to progress to the next class until they have demonstrated competence in the previous course. 

(3) Adopt more consistently rigorous testing methods, especially for the test at the end of each course, which could be more closely tied to the goals stated for each course. 
As for the transition to A1 to A2-1, the slower pace and advancement of unqualified students irritated some students. I suggest that, if possible, the Goethe Institute should create a fast and slow track for A2.  I was told that previously there was only one A2 course (not A2-1 and A2-2 as currently offered). Many students seemed capable of progressing through curriculum at a faster pace than provided.  To my knowledge, some students are transferring to a different school because of this reason, and they have stated privately that they do not believe their money was well spent. 

Personnel 

The personnel I interacted with most were consistently wonderful and although I have no complaints I would like to single out several people for special thanks:  Ulrike Schubert-Voigt, Annelie Billina, Zhibek Alipour, Tobias, and Elena Gebert.  All of these people went above and beyond what I would normally expect. This is far from an exhaustive list, and I am sure that there are many other staff deserving of thanks that I have missed.   

Summary 

The education received from the Goethe Institute was good, although somewhat less rigorous than expected for a course labeled 'intensive,' and certainly is less intensive than courses labeled as such in academic programs in the United States. Overall, I was pleased by the course and would recommend it to others.